Adam, are you still going to be on Twitter?
Undecided.
What are you waiting for?
Wait, I don't know.
I'm waiting for the buzz to die down, there's a lot of buzz, and it's unclear if everyone's
going to mast it on, or if Twitter is going to implode because all the SREs were laid
off.
I just don't know what to think, and I don't know if I'm upset about it, if it does die.
I don't know.
It sounds like we're both just going to wait to see what everyone else does and follow them
there.
Yeah, I'm just going to do whatever you do.
Whatever you do.
I'm following you.
I'm following everyone else.
In all seriousness, have you looked at any of these alternatives?
I mean, there's just so much talk now about Twitter's dead, there's people that have said
they've left.
I don't know if they really left, it's the Canada thing, people serious.
Yeah, I think I've been through this cycle before where I've looked at alternatives.
Not because I was trying to leave Twitter, but just out of curiosity with what other models
are there.
I was pretty into federated stuff at one point.
Could you explain what that is to me, or I mean for the listeners who don't know.
So I think the idea behind federated, there's like a few different setups, right?
You can have a completely centralized setup like Twitter, super easy to sign up, everyone
has one account, except for the bots who have a hundred accounts, apparently.
But theory of everyone has one account, everything's in one place, one company serves everyone.
And there's a totally decentralized model where that's when you start talking about blockchain.
So that's like with all the crypto blockchain stuff, where people talk about putting the
whole social network on the blockchain.
In general, I don't think anyone who says that really knows what they're talking about,
it just does not really make sense to go that far, it's not what blockchain systems can handle.
The federated stuff is a little bit more interesting where there is a single protocol, kind of
like email.
You know, email, there's a single protocol for receiving messages, but anyone can stand
up a server and join the protocol and you compete based off of delivering good experiences.
So you can think about Gmail as they're, they're huge, everyone uses Gmail, but they're technically
on a federated protocol where you can message people that aren't on Gmail, people that aren't
on Gmail can message you, anyone can come in and compete with Gmail.
So that's kind of the appeal of federated systems where it's a protocol that is universal,
but you're not trapped on platform, if it starts to suck, you can move and you don't
lose as much.
It's not the case with, you know, fully centralized things.
So that's what Mastodon is and that's why everyone's really excited about it.
I checked out Mastodon a few years ago when it was a little bit smaller and I wasn't super
excited by it.
Like I liked the concept, like I just love the idea of protocols and people building whatever
they want, but it's pretty rough, some of the trade offs that you have to make.
Yeah.
And so I, I have all kinds of questions.
First of all, I guess the Gmail example is the protocol is just like email, just SMTP.
Yeah, I don't know the details of the email protocol, but yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I guess with the Mastodon thing, I, first of all, I didn't know it's been around for
years.
I thought it was just like some startup that launched because Twitter was under some duress.
But it makes actually a ton of sense in my mind that you said this.
If I take all of the like stuff I've seen about Mastodon on Twitter out of my mind,
if I just ignore all of that because we'll talk about what we've, what I've seen on Twitter.
If I take all that out, the idea makes a ton of sense that like Twitter should be this
just general infrastructure that it sucks for it to be a single company, now a private
company, when it is so important in terms of messaging, public figures, you think of
all the organizations that use Twitter to put out important messages, it's become this
very vital infrastructure I feel like in society.
And the idea that that could just be a protocol like email that could have multiple different
versions of it, different clients, but like it's hard for that protocol to die or harder,
I would think, than if it's a single company with a single person at the helm.
Is that all check out?
Yeah.
Yeah, it makes sense.
And I think a lot of social networking, like peer-to-peer stuff, when I say pre-to-peer,
I mean, like you interacting with a bunch of people, they all could benefit from calling
protocol.
They eat even payments, right?
It kind of sucks that if you're on Venmo and I'm on square cash, those are all...
Like, inoperable.
So but the actual experience of Mastodon, I've seen a lot of things on Twitter, that it's
bad.
And that...
Yeah.
So basically, people have to run these independent, like if you want to run a server for Mastodon,
you have to run your own infrastructure and you're paying the bill, that whole thing.
But they're all...
Are they all somehow connected?
Like users across servers can interact or now?
Yeah, exactly.
So it's on a protocol called ActivityPub, which is a general social media publishing protocol.
And any server that's running ActivityPub or Mastodon can federate with other servers.
The thing that I don't love about the Mastodon setup is that your identity is tied to one
server.
So if I set up my own server, I could be DAX at my server, whatever.
If I feel like I'm sick of her hosting my own server, like my identity is kind of tied
to that.
I have to host it forever to keep it up forever.
It doesn't travel with me if I decide to switch servers.
So I still feel like you're a little bit locked in.
And I think a lot of the UX issues come from that because, you know, if you see people
posting their Mastodon handles, it's like their username at some random server they chose,
which is pretty arbitrary at this point, like none of us know what we're doing.
So that's I think some of the rough edges come from that.
And the reason I bring this up is because there's another project which I haven't seen come
up a lot.
And I think it might be because it's like crypto related.
So there's just automatic skepticism, which I'm all in for, like I don't generally like
stuff in that space.
But I don't know if you heard of it, Farkaster, everyone tell me.
Well, I've heard you say that maybe on Discord, about, I don't know, can you continue?
I guess I don't know if I'm talking about it.
A couple of years ago, the former CTO, I think of Coinbase, he had this thought it was management
of what is the minimum blockchain you need to do a decentralized or federated Twitter
replacement.
Okay.
And he spent, I think a couple of years, I think it's been a couple of years now with
his co-founder and they released something and it's called Farkaster and they have a great
blog post about it.
I'm not going to try to explain it because I don't understand it well enough.
But the idea there is they laid out what you need for a minimum social network.
And they basically thought of it as the identity piece is the only piece that really needs
to be, you know, on blockchain.
So that's where all the rough edges are like creating an account, like setting all that
up is a little bit trickier because crypto UX is just not great.
And but once you do that, that's your identity.
If you're identity forever, it is a matter of what client using like how you're accessing
the network, that is just you, as long as you have control over that account, that is going
to be you forever and no one can take that away from you.
The rest of it does not operate on blockchain.
It's kind of like Macedon where it's, you know, it's federated.
People can build whatever experiences they want on it.
And that model, I'm like, I'm really excited about and I feel like your identity, like
your identity stays with you no matter which of the federated servers you join in that
far castor example.
Yeah, exactly.
And people find you like mine would just be THGXR.
You're going to find me no matter what, what way you're entering the network.
Yeah.
So that sounds attractive.
I guess I've realized we've kind of like jumped into these Twitter alternatives.
Maybe we should talk about like, do we need a Twitter alternative?
What is the situation with Twitter?
What is the read on it?
There's kind of like two angles, I think, to talk about and I'd like to dive into both,
like the technical side with the layoffs and all the people like pointing out bugs or pointing
out things that are going wrong.
And then there's sort of the, uh, just company and leadership, the Elon Musk side, like,
is he capable of running a software company?
I think there's a lot of people I just love to hear your opinions on all this.
I don't know where you want to start.
Yeah.
I guess let's start about whether we should be looking for a Twitter alternative.
I personally don't feel like that.
I think I do a kind of agree with you.
It's kind of the, I'm going to move to Canada.
If that person becomes president, um, what it's funny, I said, like, is we actually know
someone that literally did that.
They moved to Panama.
There you go.
They're out on their, on their promise.
Yeah.
I'm sure it's happened in small numbers, just maybe not the number of people who said they
would.
Yeah.
So yeah, it's obviously a really chaotic time, you know, the future of it.
It's unknown.
It's going to be rough and bumpy, which is unfortunate.
Um, especially the people that work there for, you know, all of us using the, using Twitter
that love Twitter, but I don't, I feel like it's a little bit of an overreaction.
I don't think there really has been anything crazy that's happened yet at least, uh, the
thing I was talking about, the thread that I saw this morning, um, there were some new
stories going around about how like hateful tweets have gone up, like a thousand X or something.
But if you actually get the numbers, there were like a thousand accounts that were created
right after Twitter got acquired and they were doing that.
And then Twitter like clamped down on it.
And ever since then, it's pretty much been the same old Twitter, except everyone's kind
of having this meta conversation.
Yeah.
No, yeah.
It has dominated a lot of what I see on Twitter is just this talk of the situation at Twitter.
I guess like the, I, I assumed all the, the increased spam and increased hate speech stuff
was overblown and that it wasn't necessarily, like people didn't do all the, the real research
to, to back those claims, but I guess there have been some notable things that have happened.
Well, I don't know how notable, but there have been instances where with the new verification
system, companies were impersonated and tweets were put out and stock prices dropped.
I don't know.
If you know anything about those stories or if there's real concern, I guess you ended
up pulling the feature shortly thereafter.
So there had to be something to it.
Yeah.
It's funny.
Prior to that, I was talking to my friends and I was, we were talking about, okay, what's
the most lucrative thing you could do to, if like fake, impersonate company.
And the thing we came up with is you impersonate your own Powell and say, Hey, we're dropping
rates again and a stock market goes crazy.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
But then the next day someone actually did something like that with that pharma company.
And yeah, that, that was interesting because I don't know how much money they made off
of that.
Maybe, maybe it was clever.
I don't know.
Yeah.
But yeah, that, I guess that yes, I agree, the product development side has been really
questionable.
It feels like they're making unforced errors.
I would love to have a Twitter where every human has one account and I think that's what
they should try to get to this first like incremental thing they did.
I think it was kind of, I think everyone kind of saw what was going to happen and then it
did happen.
I still want to give them the benefit of the doubt because as obvious as it is us, like
I'm sure it's a completely chaotic, you'd expect the people in Twitter to do better.
Elon Musk included, but I'm kind of in a wait and see mode.
Yeah.
Do you have any like thoughts on Elon Musk as like CEO of a software, like a tech company?
Because I, like as I think about his successes and I know that's all debated a lot, but SpaceX
and Tesla are very different companies than Twitter.
Do you think his style of coming in and trying to run a software company plays or is there
concern on that front?
Yeah, I think for myself for a long time, even before Tesla and SpaceX were as big as
they are, I've kind of like had, I was kind of 50/50 on Elon Musk.
I won in the past, I've kind of always been like, well, I like him because I have the
way he spends his money, you know, kind of trying these really crazy things and putting
it all on the line.
I imagine that if I had that much money, I would be brave enough to do that, which who
knows if I would actually be.
The other side that always was a red flag, and I see it as with Mark Zuckerberg also,
is when they get this reputation of being an engineer and I know that doesn't happen
by accident, it has to be very intentionally cultivated where they're like, oh, look, he
actually knows XYZ technical concept.
That to me is always a red flag because I feel like that has to be like very intentional
PR and that just makes me not trust it.
Yeah.
You know, these companies are big and successful people, I think that upsets a lot of people
because they don't like the way he runs them or they don't like who he is or et cetera.
And there's always attempts at taking away the fact that there are successful people will
try to say, well, you know, he didn't do that, it was the engineers or like, whatever the
details are, at the end of the day, at some point he kind of had to put it on the line
and take a lot of personal risks to try to make these companies successful.
These are like crazy moonshot companies, there's not been like a single profitable American
car company and I don't know how long, you know, getting rockets to 100 X cheaper, also
like insane just to do as a person with no background in that space.
So it's undeniable that he's entered spaces where he's had very little reason to be an
expert and delivered.
So I generally would not bet against him.
It is hard now him entering a space that I think I understand a little bit because you
know, I work on software and it seems like he's doing all the wrong things but kind of
the history that you, I feel like I would still give him the benefit of the doubt.
Yeah, it's all very entertaining at the very end, I've seen people tweet that that there's
more traffic hitting Twitter now than ever because all this craziness.
Yeah.
And that's been the case with all his companies.
Like, at least with Tesla, it's been a lot about this controversial marketing angle, which
I do not understand at all.
I don't either.
I really love to hate him, it seems, like there's a lot of, and I'm not like an Elon
Musk fan.
I just, I think I'm like, you know, I'm sort of indifferent.
I think he's done interesting things and yeah, to your point, like you can't deny the success
that they've had that those companies, whoever wasn't responsible for that, but people like
people have really come out with this Twitter thing and that's been a lot of the discourse
on Twitter is just this sort of like either very strongly for, very strongly against Elon
Musk and the sky is falling, I'm not getting numbers on my tweet notifications now, clearly
he doesn't know what he's doing.
Like, have you seen any of the technical, like actual decay that people sort of, there's
been a lot of murmurs that now, like things are degrading, it's just happening slowly,
but just watch six months from now Twitter won't exist.
Do you believe any of that?
Yeah.
So I have not faced, I haven't hit any of that myself.
I haven't noticed anything, but other people have posted and I'll take, you know, I'll take
their word for it, that there's stuff that's degrading and of course there's some articles
from ex-employees saying, you know, this company will blow up in six months.
I've left companies where I've thought that about myself, like, oh, there's all these
little things that I'm doing and there's no way someone's going to know how to do that.
Just times where I left and it wasn't like a friendly, friendly parting and it was really
chaotic and it was a complete mess, but it survived and it always does, like people always
figure it out and it's, there's going to be some short term pain and pressure, but I generally
believe that people will eventually figure it out.
It's not like no one can resuscitate it, you know, no one on the planet is capable of resuscitating
it.
So I, yeah, I believe it'll degrade and things will break.
Like there's always some random servers that need to be rebooted every two weeks, no matter
how, like, good of an engineering company you are.
And if someone's not there to do it, maybe it kind of creeps up.
And I guess when that stuff happens, will anyone really leave over that?
I guess what would it take for you to leave Twitter.com?
I'm just here because everyone I like is here and as long as it continues to be the case,
I'm going to continue to be here even if the experience is not great.
I would argue that the Twitter experience has not been that great in terms of a product
for a while.
It's kind of stagnated.
It's gotten bloated in some ways.
The ads are really, really bad, but I'm still here because everyone I care about is here.
Yeah.
So, yeah, it's been the only, it's really been the only place I hang out on the internet
for a long time, but to your point, yeah, it hasn't really changed much.
I think that is exciting to me, whoever's in charge, like the idea that they're coming
in and making a lot of changes, it seems really fast, it makes me think they'll figure something
out that's interesting and we won't just have the same Twitter we've had for a decade or
whatever.
Yeah.
Exactly.
I mean, it's like my favorite platform, but it's not good.
So, just the chance of it becoming better is exciting.
Yeah.
I think of the whole, the things I really don't like about Twitter, just the ways that things
get in front of you.
So, there's ways to like, you can change your feed to be chronological and all that, but
the algorithm in quotes generally feels pretty bad.
The things that are, and maybe that's just the way our brains work, but the things that
are sort of amplified on the platform seem backwards from what I really care about.
And I would think that he's, he's aware of that, like he's talked about the algorithm
a lot and fairness and all this stuff.
I'm sure they're going to make changes, I don't know, that seems like the kind of thing
that could go really badly or it could be awesome, I don't know.
I'm excited to watch it.
I'll play out.
Yeah.
And that's kind of one of the reasons I've liked Twitter is because it does take work.
You have to follow the right people and you have to like set your feed in a certain way.
But you can get to a place where it doesn't feel like this thing is just hijacking things
you can't control.
When I see other platforms like Instagram, every single thing put in front of me is like
creating an involuntary reaction for me that I just cannot like control.
Yeah.
And I hate that feeling.
I just don't like that and with Twitter, I feel like, okay, I'm in control.
I'm like using it because I like it.
But you know, that's not the default Twitter experience.
The fall Twitter experience is you follow a bunch of people and someone that thinks like
you quote tweets, someone that doesn't think like you and they're like, look at this idiot
and then you can't help but we don't like hate, read all replies.
And that's like just hijacking your time.
Yeah.
So I'd love to see that not be the default experience and a lot of people hate Twitter
because of that.
I think it's a terrible place because of that.
Yeah, I don't know that I've gotten out of that.
I don't know that I've gotten out of the default experience.
I don't know if I've put enough work into my, there are a lot of times I feel like I spent
time on Twitter and I wasn't like pleased at the end that I didn't spend the time wisely
or something.
Yeah.
It still happens.
It's just to what degree to me it's, yeah, it's it's 100% off my feed, but it's like mostly
off my feet.
But I've never thought about that as Twitter's like differentiator.
Is it, it's like almost the worst of the big social media platforms at being a good social
media platform in terms of like what they want to do, which is hijack your attention.
Like Twitter's the worst at it.
And maybe that's why we like it the most.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
I guess it's just hard to do when it's text only, I think it's other platforms.
I mean, there's videos and whatever on Twitter, but yeah, the ad side is also something.
I don't know.
What kind of ads do you get on Twitter?
I used to get a lot of like, it was like, Lemigo and like serverless stuff.
I mean, just, I don't know if they somehow knew I was able to be us.
These days, I don't really notice the ads.
I think I just skip right past them.
I don't know if I just don't even register in my brain.
Yeah.
I, yeah.
So I did, I do get some of that, like the technology focused ones, but it's, I always
found it annoying because it feels like they don't have enough ads to fulfill that category.
So you just do the same thing over and over from us.
I do see, I see the same, like promoted tweet.
It's the guy that's like, you don't, one does not simply.
Simply do.
That's funny.
Yeah.
Is that an ad?
I mean, it's a promoted tweet.
I guess it's an ad in a sense, but it's the same that we're talking about here, the slots
that big companies put in, or is that somebody that just paid to have that tweet?
I don't know.
I think it's, I'm too afraid to click on it.
Yeah.
No, same.
So I get that, and I just hammered you over the head with that, then I get this other
category of things for those fake mobile games.
Have you seen those?
Oh, I think I have, yeah.
Where it'll be like this weird 3D rendering of a game that's not, it's not the actual
game, but it's like really goofy and funny.
It's always like some mafia boss.
It's like being like some guy, it's, yeah.
I actually found entertaining because they feel like little soap operas to me where I
just cannot predict where, where it's going to go.
But you know, also a really terrible ad.
I don't use Instagram much, but when I do, every single ad I get, I'm literally happy
to get the ads.
I'm like, wow, I needed that.
Like I just got a dog.
That's what my wife said.
I'm getting all this really cool dog stuff, so yeah, yeah.
My wife said like they're so good on Instagram about feeding her stuff that she's looking
for.
She'll just like search something so that she knows she'll get more ads about that thing.
Like she uses Instagram for that.
And it's interesting.
Like it's working out well for them and their advertisers, I guess that Instagram.
Yeah.
I would use an ad-only version of Instagram where I'm just like showing me all the stuff
you think I want because it's usually right.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's the funny part about like the privacy angle, everybody wants like no tracking
and all that.
But it makes for a better like ads don't have to be bad.
Yeah.
I generally think, what do you think about the whole on Twitter, the move to subscriptions?
Maybe I don't see as many ads because I am Twitter blue.
I'm subscribed.
Well, speaking of Twitter being a product that's bad, I've been subscribed to Twitter blue
for since it came out and I've had every single feature turned off because I think every
feature makes it worse.
No, I agree.
I've had the $2.99 forever too.
And I turned off the undo thing like so many of those features just annoyed me.
I like that you can upload longer videos.
So I did some longer videos on Twitter, which is dumb because nobody wants to watch video
on Twitter.
But I did it.
I'm trying to think of there's other features.
I guess I changed the icon.
Wait, what?
On my screen.
Yeah.
You can use like a different like holiday themed ones like the icon on your phone.
I've done that.
I mean, I'm into finding ways for the people like I'll I subscribe to them because like
I said, I Twitter is a big part of my life and a lot of value from it.
So I'm like, I'll pay.
I don't care about the features, but you know, honestly, it's not it's like if it makes it
easier for them to not do as many ads or something, like that to me is a reason to pay for it.
It's a thing I use a lot and I'm okay paying for things.
I use a lot.
I'm hoping it'll make it better.
I don't know if that's the general, if that's the broad consensus.
I don't feel like that's been the reaction.
I've seen on Twitter people seem pretty upset about the whole thing, but yeah.
I think people are still as far as we've come, people are still not used to paying for software
in general.
Like eight dollars a month is like two random things you would grab like while you're checking
out at a grocery store without thinking about it.
So yeah, it's I think people aren't used to used to paying for it.
And I think when it was tied to the verification stuff that just really muddied up the conversation.
Yeah.
So we think Twitter is sticking around.
We don't think it's gone in six months.
Yeah, I think it's I think it took around.
Like I said, there's a few things.
I've just seen this before like a M&A type of thing happens.
Things change hands.
It's always really chaotic.
It's never going to be smooth.
It's never going to be elegant.
Really can't expect that from even like an expert operator.
And to I you know, say whatever you want about Elon Musk, but he generally hasn't had huge
failures.
Yeah.
And I think the other thing we didn't talk about is all the layoffs.
And I think that one I mean, I think if I if you look into it, it's it's like a suspension,
I think.
Oh, really?
And it's like you're suspended for three months, you'll still get paid for like a furlough.
Yeah.
Exactly.
You might get, you know, unsuspended or whatever it is.
So yeah, so we'll see.
We'll see what where they end up.
It's interesting that Twitter made these big layoffs took a lot of heat.
But like all the tech companies, big ones are doing these huge layoffs.
So it kind of timed poorly for if you're looking at it from Elon Musk's standpoint, like he
bought Twitter.
But like, how much of that's just the global macroeconomic situation?
Yeah.
I mean, they were headed that way either way.
These companies that are much more profitable than them had to do layoffs, you know, 10,
20%.
So Twitter was at least seeing that much, if not more.
Interesting.
Well, I guess I'll reserve, I'll not go out and get a mastodon handle or whatever you
have to do.
I don't even know what server I would use.
That's the other problem.
Like you first have to pick your username, which I guess users would be atom.dev.
But then you have to pick from servers and there's like, no, yeah, it's federated stuff
can be very cool, but it needs to kind of be a Gmail situation where there's one really
excellent provider.
Yeah.
And then, you know, like niche providers for people that are more advanced.
Cool.
Well, I think you said it all back, so I don't know that I have any other questions about
Twitter.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, I guess I'll see you on Twitter then.
Yeah.
I'll see you on Twitter.
See you next time.
See you.
Bye.